.TH WALK "1" "January 2015" "walk 1.2.1" "walk"

.SH NAME
walk \- enter and manipulate archive files like directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBwalk\fR
[\fB-c\fR]
\fBARCHIVE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBwalk\fR is a shell tool
which allows you to treat archive files as directories.
It completely unpacks an archive file
into a temporary directory named exactly as the archive itself.
It then spawns a new shell inside the new temporary directory,
where you may proceed with any command line stuff you wish to do.
After leaving this shell,
\fBwalk\fR asks you if you wish to re-pack the archive
with the contents of the temporary directory (which you may have changed).
This way, you can interactively edit an existing archive,
examine its content, add files to it
and whatever else you wish to do with its contents.

If \fBwalk\fR is invoked on a non-existing filename or a non-file name,
it will print an error and exit.
By supplying the \fB-c\fR option, \fBwalk\fR will accept non-existing filenames
and create a new, empty archive with that name.
This can be used to create new archives from scratch.
.SH SUPPORTED FILE TYPES
\fBwalk\fR uses the \fBfile\fR tool to determine the archive file type.
Currently, it supports handling these file types:
.IP - 2
tar
.IP - 2
tar, compressed with gzip/bzip2/xz
(requires tar with built-in support for these compression formats,
i.e. the -zjJ options)
.IP - 2
7-zip
(requires the \fB7zr\fR binary)
.IP - 2
zip, jar
(requires Info-ZIP compatible \fBzip\fR and \fBunzip\fR binaries)
.IP - 2
rar
(requires A.Roshal's \fBrar\fR binary)
.IP - 2
cpio
(requires the GNU \fBcpio\fR binary)
.IP - 2
ar
(requires the GNU binutils \fBar\fR binary)
.LP
If the \fB-c\fR option has been used to create a new empty archive,
the \fBfile\fR tool cannot be used, as there is no prior archive file.
In this case, the type is guessed from the filename extension.
These extensions are recognized:

 .tar,
 .tar.gz/.tgz,
 .tar.bz/.tbz/tar.bz2/.tbz2,
 .tar.xz/.txz,
 .7z,
 .zip/.jar,
 .rar,
 .cpio,
 .a (for \fBar\fR archives)
.SH EXAMPLE

.nf
mle@box:~$ \fBwalk test.tgz\fR
 walk: unpacking archive
 ./
 ./httpd.conf
 ./rawdata
 ./uname
 ./subdir/
 ./subdir/a1
 ./subdir/a2
 ./subdir/a3
 walk: starting new shell
mle@box:~/test.tgz$ 
mle@box:~/test.tgz$ \fBls -la\fR
 drwxr-xr-x  3 mle users 4,0K 2010-09-28 02:44 .
 drwx-----x 24 mle users 4,0K 2010-09-28 02:53 ..
 -rw-r-----  1 mle users  30K 2010-09-28 02:42 httpd.conf
 -rw-r--r--  1 mle users 437K 2010-09-28 02:41 rawdata
 drwxr-xr-x  2 mle users 4,0K 2010-09-28 02:45 subdir
 -rwxr-xr-x  1 mle users  14K 2010-09-28 02:44 uname
mle@box:~/test.tgz$ \fBls -l subdir/\fR
 -rw-r--r-- 1 mle users 300 2010-09-28 02:45 a1
 -rw-r--r-- 1 mle users 400 2010-09-28 02:45 a2
 -rw-r--r-- 1 mle users 500 2010-09-28 02:45 a3
mle@box:~/test.tgz$ \fBrm subdir/a2\fR
mle@box:~/test.tgz$ \fBecho foo > bar\fR
mle@box:~/test.tgz$ \fB>rawdata\fR
mle@box:~/test.tgz$ 
mle@box:~/test.tgz$ \fBexit\fR
 walk: shell terminated.
 walk: Recreate archive test.tgz ? [Y/n]  \fBy\fR
 walk: recreating archive
 ./
 ./httpd.conf
 ./bar
 ./rawdata
 ./uname
 ./subdir/
 ./subdir/a1
 ./subdir/a3
 walk: Delete temporary directory? [Y/n]  \fBy\fR
 walk: deleting temp dir
mle@box:~$ 
mle@box:~$ \fBls -lad test*\fR
 -rw-r--r-- 1 mle users 19K 2010-09-28 02:56 test.tgz
mle@box:~$ \fBtar tfzv test.tgz\fR
 drwxr-xr-x mle/users         0 2010-09-28 02:55:12 ./
 -rw-r----- mle/users     30398 2010-09-28 02:42:48 ./httpd.conf
 -rw-r--r-- mle/users         4 2010-09-28 02:55:12 ./bar
 -rw-r--r-- mle/users         0 2010-09-28 02:55:24 ./rawdata
 -rwxr-xr-x mle/users     13900 2010-09-28 02:44:45 ./uname
 drwxr-xr-x mle/users         0 2010-09-28 02:54:50 ./subdir/
 -rw-r--r-- mle/users       300 2010-09-28 02:45:28 ./subdir/a1
 -rw-r--r-- mle/users       500 2010-09-28 02:45:35 ./subdir/a3
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Maximilian Eul <mle AT multinion.de>
